QSS Final Project

Summary: I am pursuing a final project analyzing the impact of whether a country has a state-sponsored religion on intrastate violence. I may also extend my project to divide the world’s main five religions into different metrics based on literature in the field, and see if any of those specific metrics are tied to conflict within a state. I am curious about the overlap between ideology, government control, and violent protests and other forms of conflict in response. My project revolves around three main questions. The first question is whether there is a correlation between whether a country has a state-sponsored religion and how much internal conflict that country experiences. The second question considers the metrics that make up the dominant world religions and considers whether certain metrics are more heavily tied to conflict. The third question that I may want to look at is in countries with state-sponsored religions, comparing governments who are more and less tolerant of other religious groups, is there a significant difference in internal conflict. Providing answers to these questions would act as a strong first step to evaluating the influence of government support of religion on stability and conflict within countries’ borders.

Code: I have two scripts in my code file. I have a "data_pull_and_clean" script and a "data_analyze" script. The first one imports my code, cleans it, and then merges my datasets together to represent the information I need to make my analyses and draw conclusions. The second script analyzes this data and creates visualizations, which are then stored in my output folder.
